# OPI-South-Central-Andes
Analysis of orographic precipitation and isotopes in the vicinity of the South-Central Andes (latitude 37.6 to 32.4 S)

This work is provided as support for an investigation of the Cenozoic evolution of topography in Argentina at the latitude of 35.5 S (Fennell et al., 2022). The Fennell et al. study is based on a detailed stratigraphic record (55 to 10 Ma) of the hydrogen isotopic composition, \delta^2H, of ancient precipitation, as recorded in samples of hydrated volcanic glass collected near Malargüe, Argentina (35.5°S). 

Our analysis here is based on a compilation of hydrogen and oxygen isotopic data for modern meteoric water from a 365 x 575 km area surrounding Malargüe. The isotope data are made available here in an Excel spreadsheet, entitled “Mendoza area water isotopes (32-38S) 10 Sep 2019.xlsx”.

The compilation contains isotope analyses for 589 unique locations, of which 83 are new, and 506 are from the published literature. Our compilation is focused on samples that are representative of the long-term average of precipitation isotopes in the vicinity of the sample location. We distinguish between “local” samples, where precipitation was collected at a single point, and “catchment” samples, where water samples were collected from rivers. 

We use the Orographic Precipitaton and Isotopes (OPI) programs (Brandon, 2022) to analysis a subset of these samples (n = 197) which are considered representative of primary meteoric water (unaffected by post-precipitation evaporation). The repository here includes all of the input files used for the OPI analysis, and the output generated by the programs, along with a detailed descrption of the results. 

Brandon (2022) refers to an open source release of the OPI programs, and a detailed description of how the programs work, and how to use them for analysis of precipitation isotope data. A synethic example is included there for demonstration purposes.

Mark Brandon, Yale University
September 13, 2022

References
Brandon, M.T., 2022, MATLAB Programs for the Analysis of Orographic Precipitation and Isotopes, with Implications for the Study of Paleotopography, doi: 10.5281/zenodo.7076557, https://github.com/foret37/OPI-Orographic-Precipitation-and-Isotopes/tree/v3.6.002.

Fennell, L.M., Brandon, M.T., and Hren, M.T., 2022, Cenozoic topographic evolution of the Southern Central Andes foreland region as revealed by hydrogen stable isotopes in hydrated volcanic glass (in review). 


